## What is Bitcoin
At the base, Bitcoin is a **permission-less** and **peer-to-peer** system for the instant and **irreversible** transfer of value between parties. It is based on a **distributed ledger** which represents and records the transfer, in a **trustless** and **secure** manner. The system depends on **consensus**, not authority, and is built through a durable **proof-of-work** system which prevents cheating.
* **Permission-less**: There is no mechanism by which a central authority allows (or can prohibit) two individuals from exchanging bitcoin. As long as the two parties have (probably independent) access to the bitcoin chain, and they both are in possession of their private keys, value can be sent from one to another.
* **Distributed Ledger**: The entire Bitcoin network exists as a distributed collection of individual nodes, each having a complete copy of the transaction ledger. Any transaction must be validated by the nodes and then secured in a **block** with other transactions by a **proof-of-work** **miner** before it can be included in the ledger. Once included in the ledger, every node will possess a copy of the transaction.
* **Peer-to-peer**: Every node in the Bitcoin network is considered equivalent to every other node, and no node has any privilege or status above any other node. A transaction may be sent to any node, and the network will transmit the transaction to all nodes for validation.
* **Irreversible**: Once a transaction has been finally committed to the ledger, it is impossible to reverse it without the consent of the recipient. In this sense it is more like handing someone a $1 bill, and not at all like a credit card transaction.
* **Trustless**: The parties to a transaction do not need to depend on a third party to prove that funds are available. Simply examining the ledger will prove to the recipient that the funds are available. Similarly, once the transaction is finally committed to the ledger, the recipient is assured that the transfer is valid (and is also now irreversible). There is no concern for fraudulent checks, stolen credit cards, or counterfeit bills.
* **Secure**: The Bitcoin network is impossible to attack with known computational methods. The entire network depends on complex cryptography which would be exponentially harder to break than trying to find a specific grain of sand on all the beaches everywhere.
* **Consensus**: The Bitcoin network depends on a majority consensus of the nodes checking local copies of the distributed ledger, to ensure that every new transaction follows the clear and simple rules of the network. For instance, an individual cannot send value that they do not possess, and cannot send the same value to two others (double-spend). If an individual attempts such a double-spend, then the network will automatically adjust (achieve consensus), and only one of the transactions will be recognized.
* **Proof-of-work**: The Bitcoin network is rendered secure by requiring a tremendous amount of work (calculations) be expended to validate a block of transactions. The proof-of-work guarantees that each transaction and **block** has been subjected to the full validation of the Bitcoin network. Also, because each new block depends on all previous blocks, in order to modify even one transaction in the past, someone would have to do all the work from that block forward.
* **Block**: The Bitcoin ledger is called a *blockchain* since it is literally a chain of blocks. Every 10 minutes (on average), a set of transactions is organized into a block. The **proof-of-work** **miners** append the new block to the existing blocks and the new block becomes part of the **distributed ledger**.
* **Miner**: The miners are specialized computers that competitively work to solve a complex cryptographic problem (called a hash). The solution to the problem provides **proof-of-work**, demonstrating that the block was made through the competitive process, and that it was guaranteed to pass through the rigorous validation required for a valid block.
